.\" Written by Sébastien Millet
.\"
.TH tcprelay 1 "version 1.3.2" "April 2014"

.SH NAME
.TP
tcprelay \- a program to redirect TCP connections

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBtcprelay\fP -s server[:port] [-p port] [\fIOPTIONS\fP]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
tcprelay relays TCP traffic between a server and a client, logging all
data exchanged in between.
.TP
Can manage multiple sessions in parallel since version 1.3.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h,\ \-\-help
Display a quick help screen and exit.
.TP
.B \-v\ \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-s,\ \-\-server\ \fIserver\fP
Connect to \fIserver\fP when an incoming connection is received on
the listening port. Can also be written server:port to specify the
port to connect to (by default, it is the listening port.)
.TP
.B \-m,\ \-\-mirror
Run in mirror mode. Simply send back received bytes to the client.
Assumed if -s option is not used.
.TP
.B \-p,\ \-\-listen\-port\ \fIport\fP
Listen on \fIport\fP to accept incoming connections.
.TP
.B \-r,\ \-\-run\-once
Relay one connection and when it is finished, exit instead of
re-entering listen mode to accept incoming connections.
.TP
.B \-t,\ \-\-telnet
Assume traffic is telnet-style and output log accordingly. Without this
option, the traffic is logged in binary form (hex code of characters is
displayed), with this option, lines are written. It is useful to log
traffic of telnet-style protocols like SMTP, POP3, and so on.
By default, the traffic is expected to be raw binary (no telnet-style.)
.TP
.B \-b,\ \-\-buf\-size\ \fIsize\fP
Sets the network traffic bufer size to \fIsize\fP in bytes. 10,000 by
default.
.TP
.B \-\-timeout \fIduration\fP
Sets the connection timeout to \fIduration\fP, in seconds. 5 by default.
.TP
.B \-\-ip\-as\-port
Use last byte of IP to form source port when connecting to server: try up to
252 times using this formula (where ipa is the last IP byte): p = 1024 + (256
* n) + ipa.
.TP
.B \-\-connexe
Fork an external program for every new connection. Command will have client IP
address passed as argment
.TP
.B \-V,\ \-\-verbose
Be more talkative.
.TP
.B \-\-minimal\-log
Don't log data, only connection info.
.TP
.B \-q,\ \-\-quiet
Be less talkative.
.TP
.B \-l,\ \-\-log\-file\ \fIfile\fP
Write the log in \fIfile\fP. tcprelay.log (in current working directory)
by default.
.TP
.B \-\-rotate\-log
Rotate log files, adding .[1..n] to the log name (before extension)
and cycling through files. Off by default.
.br
\.1 is the most recent file in the rotation, .n the oldest.
With the default number of log files (7, see \fB\-\-rotate\-log\-nb\-files\fP
below) and the default log name (tcprelay.log, see \fB\-l\fP above), each log
rotation works this way:
.br
  tcprelay.7.log is deleted
.br
  tcprelay.6.log is renamed as tcprelay.7.log
.br
  tcprelay.5.log is renamed as tcprelay.6.log
.br
    \.\.\.
.br
  tcprelay.1.log is renamed as tcprelay.2.log
.br
  tcprelay.log is renamed as tcprelay.1.log
.br
  tcprelay.log is recreated
.br
  Each log file has a size (in average) close to
.br
  (rotate\-log\-size\-kb / (rotate\-log\-nb\-files + 1))
.br
  => by default, 10MB / 8 = 1.25MB
.br
  The rotation occurs at the time tcprelay.log
.br
  reaches this average size.
.br
.TP
.B \-\-rotate\-log\-size\-kb
Total size of log files in Kilo-bytes while rotating logs. 10240 by default (10MB).
.br
Implies \-\-rotate\-log
.TP
.B \-\-rotate\-log\-nb\-files
Number of files to cycle through while rotating logs. 7 by default.
.br
Implies \-\-rotate\-log
.TP
.B \-n,\ \-\-nodisplay\-log
Don't output the log on the screen. Done by default.
.SH "INITIALIZATION FILES"
.TP
None.
.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Written by Sébastien Millet <sebastien.millet1@club-internet.fr>.
.TP
Multisession and some other features by Warren Downs <Warren@choggiung.com>.
.TP
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 published by the Free Software Foundation.
